# Introduction to Data Analysis 🥇

> kindly visit the [setup page](https://github.com/EphraimOAgyeman/Data-Analysis-Complete-Tutorials/blob/cc541e2f2fa764c602b6d59d32722aa91ceda539/%231%20Introduction%20to%20Data%20Analysis/Readme.md) if you have not installed Python and Jupyter labs.

Summary of lesson
1. Into to Data Science
2. Steps in Data Analysis
3. The difference between Data Analysis and Data Science


## What is Data Analysis? 🧮
In short, Data analysis is the process of finding and reporting insights in data.

### [Insights](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insight)
- Seeing intuitively
- Acute observation
- Discernment
- Understanding of cause and effect

---
In order to search, find or report intuitions or insights from data, there has to be data -Technically called `Data Gathering`.

Once the data has been successfully gathered, it has to be `cleaned` and made ready for use. 
After this stage has been passed, we are now ready to `explore` and find our intuitions.

Intuitions or `insights` can be made statistically or visually. 

Gather all your finding and make a good `report` to whoever needs it, in the form of an article for the general public, or an email to a company remote, or in slides for a presentation or in an actual report form.

---

### In summary..
The process can be categorized into 5 parts
1. Gather your data
2. Clean it
3. Explore the data
4. Make good and clear visuals
5. Finally design your report to your world


## What is Data Science? 🥼 
Data Science is everything in data analysis plus prescience.

### [Prescience](https://www.thefreedictionary.com/prescience)
- A hint of what is to come in the immediate future
- Knowledge of events before they take place

---
The act of making or finding insights in the immediate future is what data science is all about.
There is only one tool in the world use to achieve this, Machine learning. This is the umbrella termnology for most of the tools we know in our current day, ie Neural Netowrks and Deep learning.

---
Kindly visit this repository to learn about machine learning
