## Data Gathering

You guessed it! 🎊
The first stage to Data Analysis is to gather data.

Data is everywhere and in different formats but can be grouped into two;
- `Existing Data` Organized data lying in storage somewhere.
- `Live Data` Data that has not been organized yet, usually yet to occur or happening live.

---
Before you can gather data, you have to know the purpose, ie `Problem`. 
Imagine the numerous websites with data, databases around the world and data on social media as sample examples of sources of data, likened unto a haystack.
Finding particular data without a problem is like looking for particular strands in the large haystack.

> You must have the problem put in a statement - clear and specific! not ambigious and dispersed.

---
### Example of an ambigious vrs a clear problem statement
- Does good work ethics increase productivity in company A? ❎
- Does time for reporting and time taken for break increase productivity in company A? ✔️

---
If we are working with the accepted problem statement, we can now ask questions to find where our data might be.
The problem statement is `Does time for reporting and time taken for break increase productivity in company A?`. With this, we will ask furthur questions about where to find the data, are we sourcing in it from company A, or is there external data somewhere that would be best for this analysis?

Preferably, the data should be from company A, so you would idealy go to those who manage the company data and request for it.
When we have gotten the data, surely it will contain alot of information. 

Data is usually presented in columns and rows, the columns help describe the parts of the data and the rows represent the entries that have been made over time.
We can now zoom out data gathering process by looking within the columns to find which ones are about `time for reporting` and `time taken for break` as well as any information surrounding the pillars mentioned.

As an analyst you should also be interested in other columns of that particular data. Could there be genuine factors causing an increase in productivity if not the two mentioned above. This is important because if the analysis proves false, you may want to now answer what causes the inreased productivity.

---
## Main sources of data
1. Stored in databases
2. Found on a website
3. Part of an API
4. On your computer

---
Since we are working in python, we have to know how to programmatically gather data in all the different sources above. The advantage for using code to gather data is when we have multiple files to download, it is not efficient to download files systematically.

The other way of loading or gathering data is visually.
